What are Web Components?
Let's dive in,
this is the boring definition,
Web Components are a set of web platform
APIs that allow you to create new custom,
reusable, encapsulated HTML tags
to use in web pages and web apps.
That's from the old
webcomponents.org site.
The keyword here is gonna be encapsulated,
but these custom,
reusable, this all sounds pretty familiar,
right?
If you've been following web
design in the last 10 years or so.
LEGOs, right, components,
designed systems.
And this is how we build websites more or
less objects oriented.
[LAUGH] So you have components and
we staple these components
together to build up our websites.
Right now, we're probably all using
some existing JavaScript framework,
React or View or Spelt or Angular to
kind of build our LEGO sets, right?
We're already doing this component work,
so you might be wondering,
these aren't new?
Dojo had components in 2005,
then jQuery YUI, and
jQuery in 2006YUI, 2006 Ext JS,
which became Sencha 2007,
Angular 2010, Bootstrap, Ember.
And notably, Web Components
were first proposed in 2011.
So they're kinda old, but then React
in 2013, View in 2014, Spelt in 2016.
Web Components aren't new.
So what makes Web Components
different than all the other
sort of ways to build components systems?
Well, the big thing is Web Components
are a set of web standards,
which there's some nuance there,
but it's not just reams and
reams of JavaScript that
gets sent to the client.
These are built into
the browser these features.
There's four sort of
critical features here.
Template, which also comes
with a buddy called slot,
we'll talk about that, but
template is basically what it sounds like.
Basically, you can put HTML in there and
the browser parses it and says, okay,
I know what elements these are, but
it doesn't render it to the page,
sort of a ghost element,
a strip tag, or something like that.
Custom elements, these are sort of
the Hallmark feature of Web Components
the ability to basically create
your own HTML-like interface.
So the only difference is
it has a dash in the name.
You have to have a dash otherwise
it's not a Web Component.
We reserve undashness for
native components.
So custom elements are kind
of a Hallmark feature.
ShadowDOM is just a terrible [LAUGH] word.
But encapsulation is probably
the best way to think of that.
And the way I think of it is almost like
an egg, the egg wants to keep the egg
stuff inside and doesn't want it to go
out and doesn't want anything to get in.
And the same with Shadow DOM
there's a boundary around there and
inside the egg is the Shadow DOM.
I know analogies aren't super great but
that's the one I'm going with.
ES Modules, nay HTML imports.
HTML imports were killed by
Mozilla on December 15, 2014.
I'm not mad about it, yes, I am.
God forbid we could import HTML using
HTML but whatever we're left with
ACMA script modules, which is the sort
of native way to import and export,
JavaScript functions, classes,
all kinds of things, variables,
I guess you could, import and
export anything with ES Modules.
And so a lot of Web Component libraries
have now moved over to this standard,
just because it exists and
it works and it's really great.
Digging in,
template element looks like this.
Pretty basic, you just put HTML in
there and it doesn't render the page.
The template's buddy slot
is kinda interesting.
Slot is used to reveal
content inside a template.
And this only comes into play
when you have a Shadow DOM.
But basically, if you think of that custom
element, you have the custom element, and
then you write stuff on the inside, that
stuff on the inside gets thrown into this
slot element,
that content is revealed there.
And you're not limited to a single slot,
you can have multiple slots and
give them names and then you can
pass things by name into each slot.
So pretty efficient.
I usually typically use
the single slot method and
yeah if you've used view slots,
anyone use views lots?
Same principle here if
you've used view slots.
One also interesting thing, a superpower
is that slot has a slot changed event.
So if the content changes,
somebody uses JavaScript in a weird way,
and changes the slot,
you get a slight change event that you
can react to inside your weapon book.
Custom elements, we talked about this.
Only two rules, needs to have a hyphen,
right, and then you have to register
it using custom elements,
custom elements plural, sorry about that.
define.
And then custom alert, so
this would be a custom alert.
Here I can try to attempt to highlight but
a custom word and then we pass some
attributes to it, and that's gonna change
the way it looks, the way it feels.
And then when we kind of register it,
we kind of put those attributes there.
We're gonna observe those attributes,
see if they change.
And then we're gonna have
a constructor function in our class.
And then we're gonna do more stuff.
And then we define it
here with our class so
that custom element with the hyphen
refers to this JavaScript class.
So when it gets called, it sort of
executes that JavaScript function.
Hopefully, that makes sense.
Shadow DOM, okay,
it's an opaque term to me.
But yeah, encapsulation,
nothing leaks in and leaks out.
And I will say,
this is maybe the biggest superpower and
also the biggest frustration because
you've never used this in a component
context before unless you've
worked with Web Components.
It's sort of a part of
the Web Component spec.
So we're gonna learn about but
it can be frustrating when
stuff isn't happening the way
you expect it or you think,
I have access to Window or
the Document, and suddenly you don't.
And so
what happens here in the Shadow DOM,
we have that custom alert
with the content, right?
And we have Shadow DOM and Shadow DOM
implies the existence of Light DOM, right?
So the Light DOM is
the stuff you write and
the Shadow DOM is the stuff
that component writes.
And so it's gonna put up
an image with a warning icon and
they'll have a slot to
reveal that content, right?
And then the button to close and
I'll kinda get into that later but
you could kinda imagine a situation
where you're handing a design
system off to coworkers and you don't want
them to be in charge of coding the button.
You don't want them to be in charge of
coding the icon system, you wanna give
them a very strict set of icons they can
use so they can't just ruin the website.
So Shadow Dom is a really great way to
apply some fences, you can do this stuff
and then we'll take care of the rest, you
didn't have to do some add event listener.
Yes is there a question?
>> Yes and if this is skipping
ahead just let me know but
so by default the custom element
just lives in the Light DOM and
you do need to run this
.attachshadow to instance or
create a Shadow DOM inside of the,
>> Yes.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Correct.
>> Good question, yeah, so
Shadow DOM isn't for free exactly.
You have to attach a Shadow
to the custom element.
And Shadows, it's weird,
they can be open or closed, obviously.
[LAUGH] So
closed means it's locked down but
open means you can access
the Shadow DOM from the outside.
So from a parent component or something,
I could talk to the child Shadow root.
But I could talk to the Shadow DOM
from a parent component.
But when it's closed,
you don't have access to that.
And I can show that off if
you remember to remind me.
But yeah, so you can close off
a Shadow root if you need to.
You might think of insecurity, specific
situations or I don't know, Google Maps or
something [LAUGH] they don't want you
futzing around with their Google code.
So they'll just lock it down.
Or reaching too far into stuff they do.
And then delegates focus defaults false,
but this is an accessibility feature.
It's a little bit complex but
it will try to negotiate if your element
is supposed to be focused will an input or
something your custom element,
it'll try to negotiate focus to the first
focal element inside the Shadow DOM.
So if you think of it,
you have an input in the Shadow DOM,
if this is an input and
you click on custom alert,
without that the browser is like,
okay, you click the alert but
you wanna pass that focus
down into the Shadow DOM.
Everyone's set?
All right, ES Modules.
If you've done a course before
you probably run into this.
[LAUGH] Import and export in JavaScript.
And this is surprisingly relatively new.
CSS had imports first,
just wanna call that out.
But JavaScript finally got it,
it's sort of replacing
the node-based requires syntax and
basically,
you can just pull out variables,
you can pull out just the default class,
but you have to set it up in
the code to have an export.
So you can only import
things that have exports and
export things that have imports.
There's also some interesting
superpowers with ES Modules.
To use a module in a browser
just from HTML, you type script,
type equals module source
whatever path to script.
And what's interesting about that,
I learned somewhat recently is
that actually puts your script on
a fast path on a modern JavaScript
engine inside the browser so
you can get faster JavaScript
just by moving to modules.
I didn't know that.
There's no manual that tells you that but
[LAUGH] I'm telling you now.
There's actually a legacy parser
to support Legacy Scripts and
how they sort of handled everything.
So if you use the type equals module you
get sent to this fast path evaluator.
So might be a cool speed boost to
your website just to switch to those.
It might not be super easy.
[LAUGH] Things fall over but the neat
thing about this is imports and exports.
And so
what's neat is I can import a button,
specifically with Web Components I
can import a button.
And then I can call that
button whatever I want.
I can just rename it if I want and
then I can change attributes if I want,
change the default stuff.
So it's super is just a word that
says behave like the parent thing.
So behave like whatever's in this extends,
so now our hero button
will behave like the norm button but
I'm gonna set the size to large.
And so this is a neat thing if you ever
steal elements from somewhere, no,
we don't steal, no one would steal
an element but if you steal elements.
[LAUGH] If you borrow elements
from someplace on the Internet but
you wanna make it look like you coded it
or if your organization wants the same
prefix in your custom element you
can totally do that and it's great.